# Project-552
Wind Power Project by NSL Kayathar in Maharashtra, India

Scale of the project activity Project

Project participants M/s NSL Wind Power Company (Kayathar) Pvt.
Ltd.

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
Applied Baseline Methodology:
ACM0002: “Grid-connected electricity
generation from renewable sources”, version
16.0.01
(Large-scale Consolidated Methodology)

Standardized Methodology: Not Applicable.
Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries
(Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources) 
_____________
The project activity involves installation of 67.5 MW capacity wind power generation project out of
which 37.5 MW is developed and operated by “NSL Wind Power Company (Kayathar) Pvt. Ltd.”
and 30.0 MW capacity wind power generation project by “Jath Wind Energy Private Limited” (part
of NSL Group); hereinafter called as project proponent or PP, engaged in the capacity of an
Independent Power Producer (IPP) focusing on developing green power projects in India. The
project activity is defined as the installation and operation of total 40 Wind Turbine Generators
(WTGs) having individual capacity of 1.5 MW for 25 WTG s and 2.0 MW for 15 WTGs; having
different mechanism such as REC etc. Thus, the total aggregated installed capacity is 67.5 MW, is
operational in the Jath Taluka, Sangli district of Maharashtra, India.

The project activity harnesses kinetic energy of wind (renewable source) to generate electricity. It is
capable to generate around 118,260 MWh of annualized average green electricity, which is
estimated based on an operational utilization factor of 20% with efficient utilization of the available
wind energy through adoption of an efficient and modern technology. The power generated by this
project activity has been supplied to Maharashtra state electricity grid, which is a part of Indian
Grid system. Thus, the project activity contributes to emission reductions which would have
otherwise caused due to the consumption of grid electricity which is predominantly fossil fuel
based. Also, the project activity helps reducing the demand-supply gap in the state and also helps in
contributing to the sustainable development attributes in the project region.

This activity involves total installation and operations of following WTGs:
__________
Project Proponent/ Number of WTG /Supplier of WTG /Rated Capacity Total /Installed Capacity/ Location
___________
NSL Wind Power Company (Kayathar) Pvt. Ltd. /25 /ReGen Power /Vensys V87/ 1.5 MW /37.5 MW /Taluka: Jath, District: Sangli, State: Maharashtra in India
_____________
Jath Wind Energy Private Limited /15 /Inox Wind Ltd./ WT- 2000 DF /2.0 MW/ 30.0 MW /Taluka: Jath, District: Sangli, State: Maharashtra in India 
______________
PRIOR HISTORY:
____________
The first WTG under the project was commissioned on 30th March 2014 and the project is under
continuous operation since then. The entire project was fully commissioned as on 31
st October 2015.

The project was mainly invested based on carbon revenue; hence the project was initially submitted
for registration under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM); however, it was not registered.
Subsequently, it was submitted for registration under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS)
mechanism and got registered as project (VCS ID 1520) to secure position under voluntary
platform. The crediting period of the project under VCS was started on 30th March 2014 and ends
on 29th March 2024. The project has already claimed carbon credits under VCS for the period “30th
March 2014 to 29th Mar 2024”. Thereafter, the project was considered under VCS mechanism till
29th March 2024. However, the project has not been further under VCS beyond 29th March 2024.

In continuation with the same, the UCR project has been considered crediting of GHG emission
reductions from 30th March 2024. Hence, the first monitoring period considered under UCR is from
30th March 2024, thus there is no concern of double accounting of emission reductions.
________________
VCS ID: 1520 

Title: Wind Project in Maharashtra, India by Kayathar and Jath

VCS Proponent: M/s NSL Wind Power Company (Kayathar) Pvt. Ltd.

VCS Project Status: Registered

Estimated Annual Emission Reductions: 118598

VCS Project Type: Energy industries (renewable/non-renewable sources)

VCS Methodology: ACM0002

VCS Project Validator: LGAI Technological Center, S.A. (Applus+ Certification)

Project Registration Date: 06/04/2020

Crediting Period Term: CREDITING PERIOD HAS EXPIRED, 30/03/2014 - 29/03/2024
______________________
Audit type/ Period Program Validation/verification body name /Number of years 
_____________
Joint Validation  Verification /30-March-2014 to 31 January-2016 /VCS LGAI Technological Center, S.A. (Applus)/01 year, 10 months, 02 days 
____________
Verification /01-February-2016 to 30 September-2017/VCS Earthood Services Private Limited /01 year, 08 months, 00 days
_____________
Verification/ 01-October-2017 to 31 August-2018/VCS Earthood Services Private Limited/00 year, 11 months, 00 days 
_____________ 
Verification/ 01-September-2018 to 31-October-2019 /VCS Earthood Services Private Limited /01 year, 02 months, 00 days 
________________
Verification/ 01-November-2019 to 31-October-2020 /VCS LGAI Technological Center, S.A. (Applus)/01 year, 00 months, 00 days 
_______________ 
Verification/ 01-November-2020 to 31-August-2021 /VCS LGAI Technological Center, S.A. (Applus) /00 year, 10 months, 00 days 
______________
Verification/ 01-September-2021 to 30-April-2022 /VCS VKU Certification Private Limited/ 00-year 8 months 00 days
___________
Verification/ 01-May-2022 to 31 December-2022 /VCS VKU Certification Private Limited/ 00-year 8 months 00 days 
_____________ 
Verification/ 01-January-2023 to 29 March-2024 /VCS VKU Certification Private Limited /01-year 2 months 29 days
____________

